1: In thunder, lightning, or in rain?

2: Enter Duncan, Malcolm, Donalbain, Lennox, with Attendants,
meeting a bleeding Sergeant.

3: He can report,
    As seemeth by his plight, of the revolt
    The newest state.

4: The merciless Macdonwald-
    Worthy to be a rebel, for to that
    The multiplying villainies of nature
    Do swarm upon him -from the Western Isles
    Of kerns and gallowglasses is supplied;
    And Fortune, on his damned quarrel smiling,
    Show'd like a rebel's whore.

5: But all's too weak;
    For brave Macbeth -well he deserves that name-
    Disdaining Fortune, with his brandish'd steel,
    Which smoked with bloody execution,
    Like Valor's minion carved out his passage
    Till he faced the slave,
    Which ne'er shook hands, nor bade farewell to him,
    Till he unseam'd him from the nave to the chaps,
    And fix'd his head upon our battlements.

6: Mark, King of Scotland, mark.

7: No sooner justice had, with valor arm'd,
    Compell'd these skipping kerns to trust their heels,
    But the Norweyan lord, surveying vantage,
    With furbish'd arms and new supplies of men,
    Began a fresh assault.

8: Yes,
    As sparrows eagles, or the hare the lion.

9: If I say sooth, I must report they were
    As cannons overcharged with double cracks,
    So they
    Doubly redoubled strokes upon the foe.

10: Except they meant to bathe in reeking wounds,
    Or memorize another Golgotha,
    I cannot tell-
    But I am faint; my gashes cry for help.

11: From Fife, great King,
    Where the Norweyan banners flout the sky
    And fan our people cold.

12: Norway himself, with terrible numbers,
    Assisted by that most disloyal traitor
    The Thane of Cawdor, began a dismal conflict,
    Till that Bellona's bridegroom, lapp'd in proof,
    Confronted him with self-comparisons,
    Point against point rebellious, arm 'gainst arm,
    Curbing his lavish spirit; and, to conclude,
    The victory fell on us.

13: That now
    Sweno, the Norways' king, craves composition;
    Nor would we deign him burial of his men
    Till he disbursed, at Saint Colme's Inch,
    Ten thousand dollars to our general use.

14: A sailor's wife had chestnuts in her lap,
    And mounch'd, and mounch'd, and mounch'd.

15: Her husband's to Aleppo gone, master the Tiger;
    But in a sieve I'll thither sail,
    And, like a rat without a tail,
    I'll do, I'll do, and I'll do.

16: I myself have all the other,
    And the very ports they blow,
    All the quarters that they know
    I' the shipman's card.

17: Weary se'nnights nine times nine
    Shall he dwindle, peak, and pine;
    Though his bark cannot be lost,
    Yet it shall be tempest-toss'd.

18: The weird sisters, hand in hand,
    Posters of the sea and land,
    Thus do go about, about,
    Thrice to thine, and thrice to mine,
    And thrice again, to make up nine.

19: What are these
    So wither'd and so wild in their attire,
    That look not like the inhabitants o' the earth,
    And yet are on't?

20: All hail, Macbeth, hail to thee, Thane of Glamis!

21: All hail, Macbeth, hail to thee, Thane of Cawdor!

22: All hail, Macbeth, that shalt be King hereafter!

23: Good sir, why do you start, and seem to fear
    Things that do sound so fair?

24: If you can look into the seeds of time,
    And say which grain will grow and which will not,
    Speak then to me, who neither beg nor fear
    Your favors nor your hate.

25: Stay, you imperfect speakers, tell me more.

26: The Thane of Cawdor lives,
    A prosperous gentleman; and to be King
    Stands not within the prospect of belief,
    No more than to be Cawdor.

27: The King hath happily received, Macbeth,
    The news of thy success; and when he reads
    Thy personal venture in the rebels' fight,
    His wonders and his praises do contend
    Which should be thine or his.

28: Silenced with that,
    In viewing o'er the rest o' the selfsame day,
    He finds thee in the stout Norweyan ranks,
    Nothing afeard of what thyself didst make,
    Strange images of death.

29: As thick as hail
    Came post with post, and every one did bear
    Thy praises in his kingdom's great defense,
    And pour'd them down before him.

30: We are sent
    To give thee, from our royal master, thanks;
    Only to herald thee into his sight,
    Not pay thee.

31: And for an earnest of a greater honor,
    He bade me, from him, call thee Thane of Cawdor.

32: In which addition, hail, most worthy Thane,
    For it is thine.

33: Whether he was combined
    With those of Norway, or did line the rebel
    With hidden help and vantage, or that with both
    He labor'd in his country's wreck, I know not;
    But treasons capital, confess'd and proved,
    Have overthrown him.

34: That, trusted home,
    Might yet enkindle you unto the crown,
    Besides the Thane of Cawdor.

35: But 'tis strange;
    And oftentimes, to win us to our harm,
    The instruments of darkness tell us truths,
    Win us with honest trifles, to betray's
    In deepest consequence-
    Cousins, a word, I pray you.

36: Two truths are told,
    As happy prologues to the swelling act
    Of the imperial theme-I thank you, gentlemen.

37: If ill,
    Why hath it given me earnest of success,
    Commencing in a truth?

38: If good, why do I yield to that suggestion
    Whose horrid image doth unfix my hair
    And make my seated heart knock at my ribs,
    Against the use of nature?

39: Present fears
    Are less than horrible imaginings:
    My thought, whose murther yet is but fantastical,
    Shakes so my single state of man that function
    Is smother'd in surmise, and nothing is
    But what is not.

40: If chance will have me King, why, chance may
      crown me
    Without my stir.

41: New honors come upon him,
    Like our strange garments, cleave not to their mould
    But with the aid of use.

42: Think upon what hath chanced, and at more time,
    The interim having weigh'd it, let us speak
    Our free hearts each to other.

43: Enter Duncan, Malcolm, Donalbain, Lennox, and
Attendants.

44: But I have spoke
    With one that saw him die, who did report
    That very frankly he confess'd his treasons,
    Implored your Highness' pardon, and set forth
    A deep repentance.

45: Enter Macbeth, Banquo, Ross, and Angus.

46: The service and the loyalty lowe,
    In doing it, pays itself.

47: Your Highness' part
    Is to receive our duties, and our duties
    Are to your throne and state, children and servants,
    Which do but what they should, by doing everything
    Safe toward your love and honor.

48: Noble Banquo,
    That hast no less deserved, nor must be known
    No less to have done so; let me infold thee
    And hold thee to my heart.

49: My plenteous joys,
    Wanton in fullness, seek to hide themselves
    In drops of sorrow.

50: Sons, kinsmen, thanes,
    And you whose places are the nearest, know
    We will establish our estate upon
    Our eldest, Malcolm, whom we name hereafter
    The Prince of Cumberland; which honor must
    Not unaccompanied invest him only,
    But signs of nobleness, like stars, shall shine
    On all deservers.

51: That is a step
    On which I must fall down, or else o'erleap,
    For in my way it lies.

52: The eye wink at the hand; yet let that be
    Which the eye fears, when it is done, to see.

53: When I burned in desire to question them
    further, they made themselves air, into which they vanished.

54: Whiles I stood rapt in the wonder of it, came missives from
the
    King, who all-hailed me 'Thane of Cawdor'; by which title,
    before, these weird sisters saluted me and referred me to the
    coming on of time with 'Hail, King that shalt be!

55: This have
I
    thought good to deliver thee, my dearest partner of
greatness,
    that thou mightst not lose the dues of rejoicing, by being
    ignorant of what greatness is promised thee.

56: Glamis thou art, and Cawdor, and shalt be
    What thou art promised.

57: What thou wouldst highly,
    That wouldst thou holily; wouldst not play false,
    And yet wouldst wrongly win.

58: Thou'ldst have, great Glamis,
    That which cries, "Thus thou must do, if thou have it;
    And that which rather thou dost fear to do
    Than wishest should be undone.

59: Hie thee hither,
    That I may pour my spirits in thine ear,
    And chastise with the valor of my tongue
    All that impedes thee from the golden round,
    Which fate and metaphysical aid doth seem
    To have thee crown'd withal.

60: One of my fellows had the speed of him,
    Who, almost dead for breath, had scarcely more
    Than would make up his message.

61: Come, you spirits
    That tend on mortal thoughts, unsex me here
    And fill me from the crown to the toe top-full
    Of direst cruelty!

62: Make thick my blood,
    Stop up the access and passage to remorse,
    That no compunctious visitings of nature
    Shake my fell purpose nor keep peace between
    The effect and it!

63: Come to my woman's breasts,
    And take my milk for gall, your murthering ministers,
    Wherever in your sightless substances
    You wait on nature's mischief!

64: Come, thick night,
    And pall thee in the dunnest smoke of hell
    That my keen knife see not the wound it makes
    Nor heaven peep through the blanket of the dark
    To cry, "Hold, hold!

65: Your face, my Thane, is as a book where men
    May read strange matters.

66: To beguile the time,
    Look like the time; bear welcome in your eye,
    Your hand, your tongue; look like the innocent flower,
    But be the serpent under it.

67: Enter Duncan, Malcolm, Donalbain, Banquo, Lennox, Macduff, Ross,
Angus,
and Attendants.

68: This guest of summer,
    The temple-haunting martlet, does approve
    By his loved mansionry that the heaven's breath
    Smells wooingly here.

69: No jutty, frieze,
    Buttress, nor coign of vantage, but this bird
    Hath made his pendant bed and procreant cradle;
    Where they most breed and haunt, I have observed
    The air is delicate.

70: See, see, our honor'd hostess!

71: All our service
    In every point twice done, and then done double,
    Were poor and single business to contend
    Against those honors deep and broad wherewith
    Your Majesty loads our house.

72: For those of old,
    And the late dignities heap'd up to them,
    We rest your hermits.

73: We coursed him at the heels and had a purpose
    To be his purveyor; but he rides well,
    And his great love, sharp as his spur, hath holp him
    To his home before us.

74: Your servants ever
    Have theirs, themselves, and what is theirs, in compt,
    To make their audit at your Highness' pleasure,
    Still to return your own.

75: If the assassination
    Could trammel up the consequence, and catch,
    With his surcease, success; that but this blow
    Might be the be-all and the end-all -here,
    But here, upon this bank and shoal of time,
    We'ld jump the life to come.

76: But in these cases
    We still have judgement here, that we but teach
    Bloody instructions, which being taught return
    To plague the inventor.

77: He's here in double trust:
    First, as I am his kinsman and his subject,
    Strong both against the deed; then, as his host,
    Who should against his murtherer shut the door,
    Not bear the knife myself.

78: Besides, this Duncan
    Hath borne his faculties so meek, hath been
    So clear in his great office, that his virtues
    Will plead like angels trumpet-tongued against
    The deep damnation of his taking-off,
    And pity, like a naked new-born babe
    Striding the blast, or heaven's cherubin horsed
    Upon the sightless couriers of the air,
    Shall blow the horrid deed in every eye,
    That tears shall drown the wind.

79: I have no spur
    To prick the sides of my intent, but only
    Vaulting ambition, which o'erleaps itself
    And falls on the other.

80: We will proceed no further in this business:
    He hath honor'd me of late, and I have bought
    Golden opinions from all sorts of people,
    Which would be worn now in their newest gloss,
    Not cast aside so soon.

81: When you durst do it, then you were a man,
    And, to be more than what you were, you would
    Be so much more the man.

82: I have given suck and know
    How tender 'tis to love the babe that milks me-
    I would, while it was smiling in my face,
    Have pluck'd my nipple from his boneless gums
    And dash'd the brains out had I so sworn as you
    Have done to this.

83: When Duncan is asleep-
    Whereto the rather shall his day's hard journey
    Soundly invite him- his two chamberlains
    Will I with wine and wassail so convince
    That memory, the warder of the brain,
    Shall be a fume and the receipt of reason
    A limbeck only.

84: Will it not be received,
    When we have mark'd with blood those sleepy two
    Of his own chamber and used their very daggers,
    That they have done't?

85: What, sir, not yet at rest?

86: This diamond he greets your wife withal,
    By the name of most kind hostess, and shut up
    In measureless content.

87: Being unprepared,
    Our will became the servant to defect,
    Which else should free have wrought.

88: I think not of them;
    Yet, when we can entreat an hour to serve,
    We would spend it in some words upon that business,
    If you would grant the time.

89: If you shall cleave to my consent, when 'tis,
    It shall make honor for you.

90: So I lose none
    In seeking to augment it, but still keep
    My bosom franchised and allegiance clear,
    I shall be counsel'd.

91: Thanks, sir, the like to you.

92: Go bid thy mistress, when my drink is ready,
    She strike upon the bell.

93: Art thou not, fatal vision, sensible
    To feeling as to sight?

94: Or art thou but
    A dagger of the mind, a false creation,
    Proceeding from the heat-oppressed brain?

95: I see thee still,
    And on thy blade and dudgeon gouts of blood,
    Which was not so before.

96: Now o'er the one half-world
    Nature seems dead, and wicked dreams abuse
    The curtain'd sleep; witchcraft celebrates
    Pale Hecate's offerings; and wither'd Murther,
    Alarum'd by his sentinel, the wolf,
    Whose howl's his watch, thus with his stealthy pace,
    With Tarquin's ravishing strides, towards his design
    Moves like a ghost.

97: Thou sure and firm-set earth,
    Hear not my steps, which way they walk, for fear
    Thy very stones prate of my whereabout,
    And take the present horror from the time,
    Which now suits with it.

98: Hear it not, Duncan, for it is a knell
    That summons thee to heaven, or to hell.

99: It was the owl that shriek'd, the fatal bellman,
    Which gives the stern'st good night.

100: There's one did laugh in 's sleep, and one cried,
      "Murther!

101: Listening their fear, I could not say "Amen,"
    When they did say, "God bless us!

102: Macbeth does murther sleep" -the innocent sleep,
    Sleep that knits up the ravel'd sleave of care,
    The death of each day's life, sore labor's bath,
    Balm of hurt minds, great nature's second course,
    Chief nourisher in life's feast-
  LADY MACBETH.

103: Why, worthy Thane,
    You do unbend your noble strength, to think
    So brainsickly of things.

104: If he do bleed,
    I'll gild the faces of the grooms withal,
    For it must seem their guilt.

105: No, this my hand will rather
    The multitudinous seas incarnadine,
    Making the green one red.

106: Knock, knock, knock!

107: Faith, here's an equivocator that could swear
in
    both the scales against either scale, who committed treason
    enough for God's sake, yet could not equivocate to heaven.

108: O,
    come in, equivocator.

109: Knock, knock, knock!

110: Faith, here's an English tailor come hither, for
    stealing out of a French hose.

111: Was it so late, friend, ere you went to bed,
    That you do lie so late?

112: Faith, sir, we were carousing till the second cock; and
    drink, sir, is a great provoker of three things.

113: Marry, sir, nose-painting, sleep, and urine.

114: Lechery,
sir,
    it provokes and unprovokes: it provokes the desire, but it
takes
    away the performance.

115: Therefore much drink may be said to be
an
    equivocator with lechery: it makes him, and it mars him; it
sets
    him on, and it takes him off; it persuades him and
disheartens
    him; makes him stand to and not stand to; in conclusion,
    equivocates him in a sleep, and giving him the lie, leaves
him.

116: That it did, sir, i' the very throat on me; but
requited
    him for his lie, and, I think, being too strong for him,
though
    he took up my legs sometime, yet I made shift to cast him.

117: Where we lay,
    Our chimneys were blown down, and, as they say,
    Lamentings heard i' the air, strange screams of death,
    And prophesying with accents terrible
    Of dire combustion and confused events
    New hatch'd to the woeful time.

118: O horror, horror, horror!

119: Shake off this downy sleep, death's counterfeit,
    And look on death itself!

120: Up, up, and see
    The great doom's image!

121: Dear Duff, I prithee, contradict thyself,
    And say it is not so.

122: Had I but died an hour before this chance,
    I had lived a blessed time, for from this instant
    There's nothing serious in mortality.

123: All is but toys; renown and grace is dead,
    The wine of life is drawn, and the mere lees
    Is left this vault to brag of.

124: The spring, the head, the fountain of your blood
    Is stopped, the very source of it is stopp'd.

125: Those of his chamber, as it seem'd, had done't.

126: O, yet I do repent me of my fury,
    That I did kill them.

127: Who can be wise, amazed, temperate and furious,
    Loyal and neutral, in a moment?

128: Here lay Duncan,
    His silver skin laced with his golden blood,
    And his gash'd stabs look'd like a breach in nature
    For ruin's wasteful entrance; there, the murtherers,
    Steep'd in the colors of their trade, their daggers
    Unmannerly breech'd with gore.

129: Who could refrain,
    That had a heart to love, and in that heart
    Courage to make 's love known?

130: What should be spoken here,
where
      our fate,
    Hid in an auger hole, may rush and seize us?

131: And when we have our naked frailties hid,
    That suffer in exposure, let us meet
    And question this most bloody piece of work
    To know it further.

132: Threescore and ten I can remember well,
    Within the volume of which time I have seen
    Hours dreadful and things strange, but this sore night
    Hath trifled former knowings.

133: Ah, good father,
    Thou seest the heavens, as troubled with man's act,
    Threaten his bloody stage.

134: Is't night's predominance, or the day's shame,
    That darkness does the face of earth entomb,
    When living light should kiss it?

135: And Duncan's horses-a thing most strange and certain-
    Beauteous and swift, the minions of their race,
    Turn'd wild in nature, broke their stalls, flung out,
    Contending 'gainst obedience, as they would make
    War with mankind.

136: How goes the world, sir, now?

137: They were suborn'd:
    Malcolm and Donalbain, the King's two sons,
    Are stol'n away and fled, which puts upon them
    Suspicion of the deed.

138: No, cousin, I'll to Fife.

139: Thou hast it now: King, Cawdor, Glamis, all,
    As the weird women promised, and I fear
    Thou play'dst most foully for't; yet it was said
    It should not stand in thy posterity,
    But that myself should be the root and father
    Of many kings.

140: If there come truth from them
    (As upon thee, Macbeth, their speeches shine)
    Why, by the verities on thee made good,
    May they not be my oracles as well
    And set me up in hope?

141: Enter Macbeth as King, Lady Macbeth
    as Queen, Lennox, Ross, Lords, Ladies, and Attendants.

142: Tonight we hold a solemn supper, sir,
    And I'll request your presence.

143: As far, my lord, as will fill up the time
    'Twixt this and supper.

144: We hear our bloody cousins are bestow'd
    In England and in Ireland, not confessing
    Their cruel parricide, filling their hearers
    With strange invention.

145: They are, my lord, without the palace gate.

146: Tis much he dares,
    And, to that dauntless temper of his mind,
    He hath a wisdom that doth guide his valor
    To act in safety.

147: Upon my head they placed a fruitless crown
    And put a barren sceptre in my gripe,
    Thence to be wrench'd with an unlineal hand,
    No son of mine succeeding.

148: If't be so,
    For Banquo's issue have I filed my mind,
    For them the gracious Duncan have I murther'd,
    Put rancors in the vessel of my peace
    Only for them, and mine eternal jewel
    Given to the common enemy of man,
    To make them kings -the seed of Banquo kings!

149: Rather than so, come, Fate, into the list,
    And champion me to the utterance!

150: This I made good to you
    In our last conference, pass'd in probation with you:
    How you were borne in hand, how cross'd, the instruments,
    Who wrought with them, and all things else that might
    To half a soul and to a notion crazed
    Say, "Thus did Banquo.

151: I did so, and went further, which is now
    Our point of second meeting.

152: Are you so gospel'd,
    To pray for this good man and for his issue,
    Whose heavy hand hath bow'd you to the grave
    And beggar'd yours forever?

153: Ay, in the catalogue ye go for men,
    As hounds and greyhounds, mongrels, spaniels, curs,
    Shoughs, waterrugs, and demi-wolves are clept
    All by the name of dogs.

154: The valued file
    Distinguishes the swift, the slow, the subtle,
    The housekeeper, the hunter, every one
    According to the gift which bounteous nature
    Hath in him closed, whereby he does receive
    Particular addition, from the bill
    That writes them all alike; and so of men.

155: Now if you have a station in the file,
    Not i' the worst rank of manhood, say it,
    And I will put that business in your bosoms
    Whose execution takes your enemy off,
    Grapples you to the heart and love of us,
    Who wear our health but sickly in his life,
    Which in his death were perfect.

156: I am one, my liege,
    Whom the vile blows and buffets of the world
    Have so incensed that I am reckless what
    I do to spite the world.

157: And I another
    So weary with disasters, tugg'd with fortune,
    That I would set my life on any chance,
    To mend it or be rid on't.

158: So is he mine, and in such bloody distance
    That every minute of his being thrusts
    Against my near'st of life; and though I could
    With barefaced power sweep him from my sight
    And bid my will avouch it, yet I must not,
    For certain friends that are both his and mine,
    Whose loves I may not drop, but wail his fall
    Who I myself struck down.

159: We shall, my lord,
    Perform what you command us.

160: Within this hour at
most
    I will advise you where to plant yourselves,
    Acquaint you with the perfect spy o' the time,
    The moment on't; fort must be done tonight
    And something from the palace (always thought
    That I require a clearness); and with him-
    To leave no rubs nor botches in the work-
    Fleance his son, that keeps him company,
    Whose absence is no less material to me
    Than is his father's, must embrace the fate
    Of that dark hour.

161: It is concluded: Banquo, thy soul's flight,
    If it find heaven, must find it out tonight.

162: Ay, madam, but returns again tonight.

163: Nought's had, all's spent,
    Where our desire is got without content.

164: Why do you keep alone,
    Of sorriest fancies your companions making,
    Using those thoughts which should indeed have died
    With them they think on?

165: But let the frame of things disjoint, both the worlds suffer,
    Ere we will eat our meal in fear and sleep
    In the affliction of these terrible dreams
    That shake us nightly.

166: Better be with the dead,
    Whom we, to gain our peace, have sent to peace,
    Than on the torture of the mind to lie
    In restless ecstasy.

167: Treason has done his worst; nor steel, nor poison,
    Malice domestic, foreign levy, nothing,
    Can touch him further.

168: Come on,
    Gentle my lord, sleek o'er your rugged looks;
    Be bright and jovial among your guests tonight.

169: So shall I, love, and so, I pray, be you.

170: Let your remembrance apply to Banquo;
    Present him eminence, both with eye and tongue:
    Unsafe the while, that we
    Must lave our honors in these flattering streams,
    And make our faces vizards to our hearts,
    Disguising what they are.

171: O, full of scorpions is my mind, dear wife!

172: Ere the bat hath flown
    His cloister'd flight, ere to black Hecate's summons
    The shard-borne beetle with his drowsy hums
    Hath rung night's yawning peal, there shall be done
    A deed of dreadful note.

173: Be innocent of the knowledge, dearest chuck,
    Till thou applaud the deed.

174: Come, seeling night,
    Scarf up the tender eye of pitiful day,
    And with thy bloody and invisible hand
    Cancel and tear to pieces that great bond
    Which keeps me pale!

175: Light thickens, and the crow
    Makes wing to the rooky wood;
    Good things of day begin to droop and drowse,
    Whiles night's black agents to their preys do rouse.

176: So, prithee, go with me.

177: Fly, good Fleance, fly, fly, fly!

178: Enter Macbeth, Lady Macbeth, Ross, Lennox, Lords, and Attendants.

179: Pronounce it for me, sir, to all our friends,
    For my heart speaks they are welcome.

180: I had else been
perfect,
    Whole as the marble, founded as the rock,
    As broad and general as the casing air;
    But now I am cabin'd, cribb'd, confin'd, bound in
    To saucy doubts and fears -But Banquo's safe?

181: Safe in a ditch he bides,
    With twenty trenched gashes on his head,
    The least a death to nature.

182: The feast is sold
    That is not often vouch'd, while 'tis amaking,
    'Tis given with welcome.

183: Here had we now our country's honor roof'd,
    Were the graced person of our Banquo present,
    Who may I rather challenge for unkindness
    Than pity for mischance!

184: His absence, sir,
    Lays blame upon his promise.

185: Sit, worthy friends; my lord is often thus,
    And hath been from his youth.

186: Ay, and a bold one, that dare look on that
    Which might appal the devil.

187: O, these flaws and starts,
    Impostors to true fear, would well become
    A woman's story at a winter's fire,
    Authorized by her grandam.

188: Blood hath been shed ere now, i' the olden time,
    Ere humane statute purged the gentle weal;
    Ay, and since too, murthers have been perform'd
    Too terrible for the ear.

189: The time has been,
    That, when the brains were out, the man would die,
    And there an end; but now they rise again,
    With twenty mortal murthers on their crowns,
    And push us from our stools.

190: I drink to the general joy o' the whole table,
    And to our dear friend Banquo, whom we miss.

191: Think of this, good peers,
    But as a thing of custom.

192: Approach thou like the rugged Russian bear,
    The arm'd rhinoceros, or the Hyrcan tiger;
    Take any shape but that, and my firm nerves
    Shall never tremble.

193: Why, so, being gone,
    I am a man again.

194: You have displaced the mirth, broke the good
meeting,
    With most admired disorder.

195: Can such things be,
    And overcome us like a summer's cloud,
    Without our special wonder?

196: I will tomorrow,
    And betimes I will, to the weird sisters.

197: More shall they speak; for now I am bent to know,
    By the worst means, the worst.

198: I am in blood
    Stepp'd in so far that, should I wade no more,
    Returning were as tedious as go o'er.

199: Why, how now, Hecate?

200: Have I not reason, beldams as you are,
    Saucy and overbold?

201: How did you dare
    To trade and traffic with Macbeth
    In riddles and affairs of death,
    And I, the mistress of your charms,
    The close contriver of all harms,
    Was never call'd to bear my part,
    Or show the glory of our art?

202: And, which is worse, all you have done
    Hath been but for a wayward son,
    Spiteful and wrathful, who, as others do,
    Loves for his own ends, not for you.

203: He shall spurn fate, scorn death, and bear
    His hopes 'bove wisdom, grace, and fear.

204: Music and a song within,
                                         "Come away, come away.

205: I am call'd; my little spirit, see,
    Sits in a foggy cloud and stays for me.

206: And the right valiant Banquo walk'd too late,
    Whom, you may say, if't please you, Fleance kill'd,
    For Fleance fled.

207: Did he not straight,
    In pious rage, the two delinquents tear
    That were the slaves of drink and thralls of sleep?

208: Ay, and wisely too,
    For 'twould have anger'd any heart alive
    To hear the men deny't.

209: So that, I say,
    He has borne all things well; and I do think
    That, had he Duncan's sons under his key-
    As, an't please heaven, he shall not -they should find
    What 'twere to kill a father; so should Fleance.

210: For from broad words, and 'cause he fail'd
    His presence at the tyrant's feast, I hear,
    Macduff lives in disgrace.

211: The son of Duncan,
    From whom this tyrant holds the due of birth,
    Lives in the English court and is received
    Of the most pious Edward with such grace
    That the malevolence of fortune nothing
    Takes from his high respect.

212: Thither Macduff
    Is gone to pray the holy King, upon his aid
    To wake Northumberland and warlike Siward;
    That by the help of these, with Him above
    To ratify the work, we may again
    Give to our tables meat, sleep to our nights,
    Free from our feasts and banquets bloody knives,
    Do faithful homage, and receive free honors-
    All which we pine for now.

213: He did, and with an absolute "Sir, not I,"
    The cloudy messenger turns me his back,
    And hums, as who should say, "You'll rue the time
    That clogs me with this answer.

214: Harpier cries, "'Tis time, 'tis time.

215: Toad, that under cold stone
    Days and nights has thirty-one
    Swelter'd venom sleeping got,
    Boil thou first i' the charmed pot.

216: Double, double, toil and trouble;
    Fire burn and cauldron bubble.

217: Fillet of a fenny snake,
    In the cauldron boil and bake;
    Eye of newt and toe of frog,
    Wool of bat and tongue of dog,
    Adder's fork and blind-worm's sting,
    Lizard's leg and howlet's wing,
    For a charm of powerful trouble,
    Like a hell-broth boil and bubble.

218: Double, double, toil and trouble;
    Fire burn and cauldron bubble.

219: Scale of dragon, tooth of wolf,
    Witch's mummy, maw and gulf
    Of the ravin'd salt-sea shark,
    Root of hemlock digg'd i' the dark,
    Liver of blaspheming Jew,
    Gall of goat and slips of yew
    Sliver'd in the moon's eclipse,
    Nose of Turk and Tartar's lips,
    Finger of birth-strangled babe
    Ditch-deliver'd by a drab,
    Make the gruel thick and slab.

220: Double, double, toil and trouble;
    Fire burn and cauldron bubble.

221: And now about the cauldron sing,
    Like elves and fairies in a ring,
    Enchanting all that you put in.

222: Open, locks,
    Whoever knocks!

223: How now, you secret, black, and midnight hags?

224: I conjure you, by that which you profess
    (Howeer you come to know it) answer me:
    Though you untie the winds and let them fight
    Against the churches, though the yesty waves
    Confound and swallow navigation up,
    Though bladed corn be lodged and trees blown down,
    Though castles topple on their warders' heads,
    Though palaces and pyramids do slope
    Their heads to their foundations, though the treasure
    Of nature's germaines tumble all together
    Even till destruction sicken, answer me
    To what I ask you.

225: Say, if thou'dst rather hear it from our mouths,
    Or from our masters'?

226: Whate'er thou art, for thy good caution, thanks;
    Thou hast harp'd my fear aright.

227: Be bloody, bold, and resolute: laugh to
scorn
    The power of man, for none of woman born
    Shall harm Macbeth.

228: But yet I'll make assurance double sure,
    And take a bond of fate: thou shalt not live,
    That I may tell pale-hearted fear it lies,
    And sleep in spite of thunder.

229: What is this,
    That rises like the issue of a king,
    And wears upon his baby brow the round
    And top of sovereignty?

230: Be lion-mettled, proud, and take no care
    Who chafes, who frets, or where conspirers are.

231: Rebellion's head, rise never till the Wood
    Of Birnam rise, and our high-placed Macbeth
    Shall live the lease of nature, pay his breath
    To time and mortal custom.

232: Yet my heart
    Throbs to know one thing: tell me, if your art
    Can tell so much, shall Banquo's issue ever
    Reign in this kingdom?

233: Show his eyes, and grieve his heart;
    Come like shadows, so depart!

234: And thy hair,
    Thou other gold-bound brow, is like the first.

235: Ay, sir, all this is so.

236: Come,sisters, cheer we up his sprites,
    And show the best of our delights.

237: I'll charm the air to give a sound,
    While you perform your antic round,
    That this great King may kindly say
    Our duties did his welcome pay.

238: Tis two or three, my lord, that bring you word
    Macduff is fled to England.

239: And even now,
    To crown my thoughts with acts, be it thought and done:
    The castle of Macduff I will surprise,
    Seize upon Fife, give to the edge o' the sword
    His wife, his babes, and all unfortunate souls
    That trace him in his line.

240: Enter Lady Macduff, her Son, and Ross.

241: To leave his wife, to leave his babes,
    His mansion, and his titles, in a place
    From whence himself does fly?

242: He loves us not;
    He wants the natural touch; for the poor wren,
    The most diminutive of birds, will fight,
    Her young ones in her nest, against the owl.

243: My dearest coz,
    I pray you, school yourself.

244: But for your husband,
    He is noble, wise, Judicious, and best knows
    The fits o' the season.

245: I dare not speak much further;
    But cruel are the times when we are traitors
    And do not know ourselves; when we hold rumor
    From what we fear, yet know not what we fear,
    But float upon a wild and violent sea
    Each way and move.

246: I am so much a fool, should I stay longer,
    It would be my disgrace and your discomfort.

247: Thou speak'st with all thy wit, and yet, i'
faith,
    With wit enough for thee.

248: Now, God help thee, poor monkey!

249: If he were dead, you'ld weep for him; if you would not, it
    were a good sign that I should quickly have a new father.

250: If you will take a homely man's advice,
    Be not found here; hence, with your little ones.

251: To fright you thus, methinks I am too savage;
    To do worse to you were fell cruelty,
    Which is too nigh your person.

252: But I remember now
    I am in this earthly world, where to do harm
    Is often laudable, to do good sometime
    Accounted dangerous folly.

253: Why then, alas,
    Do I put up that womanly defense,
    To say I have done no harm -What are these faces?

254: Each new morn
    New widows howl, new orphans cry, new sorrows
    Strike heaven on the face, that it resounds
    As if it felt with Scotland and yell'd out
    Like syllable of dolor.

255: What I believe, I'll wall;
    What know, believe; and what I can redress,
    As I shall find the time to friend, I will.

256: This tyrant, whose sole name blisters our tongues,
    Was once thought honest.

257: I am young, but something
    You may deserve of him through me, and wisdom
    To offer up a weak, poor, innocent lamb
    To appease an angry god.

258: Why in that rawness left you wife and child,
    Those precious motives, those strong knots of love,
    Without leave-taking?

259: I pray you,
    Let not my jealousies be your dishonors,
    But mine own safeties.

260: Bleed, bleed, poor country!

261: Great tyranny, lay thou thy basis sure,
    For goodness dare not check thee.

262: I think our country sinks beneath the yoke;
    It weeps, it bleeds, and each new day a gash
    Is added to her wounds.

263: But for all this,
    When I shall tread upon the tyrant's head,
    Or wear it on my sword, yet my poor country
    Shall have more vices than it had before,
    More suffer and more sundry ways than ever,
    By him that shall succeed.

264: It is myself I mean, in whom I know
    All the particulars of vice so grafted
    That, when they shall be open'd, black Macbeth
    Will seem as pure as snow, and the poor state
    Esteem him as a lamb, being compared
    With my confineless harms.

265: I grant him bloody,
    Luxurious, avaricious, false, deceitful,
    Sudden, malicious, smacking of every sin
    That has a name.

266: But there's no bottom, none,
    In my voluptuousness.

267: Your wives, your daughters,
    Your matrons, and your maids could not fill up
    The cestern of my lust, and my desire
    All continent impediments would o'erbear
    That did oppose my will.

268: With this there grows
    In my most ill-composed affection such
    A stanchless avarice that, were I King,
    I should cut off the nobles for their lands,
    Desire his jewels and this other's house,
    And my more-having would be as a sauce
    To make me hunger more, that I should forge
    Quarrels unjust against the good and loyal,
    Destroying them for wealth.

269: This avarice
    Sticks deeper, grows with more pernicious root
    Than summer-seeming lust, and it hath been
    The sword of our slain kings.

270: The king-becoming graces,
    As justice, verity, temperance, stableness,
    Bounty, perseverance, mercy, lowliness,
    Devotion, patience, courage, fortitude,
    I have no relish of them, but abound
    In the division of each several crime,
    Acting it many ways.

271: Nay, had I power, I should
    Pour the sweet milk of concord into hell,
    Uproar the universal peace, confound
    All unity on earth.

272: With an untitled tyrant bloody-scepter'd,
    When shalt thou see thy wholesome days again,
    Since that the truest issue of thy throne
    By his own interdiction stands accursed
    And does blaspheme his breed?

273: Thy royal father
    Was a most sainted king; the queen that bore thee,
    Oftener upon her knees than on her feet,
    Died every day she lived.

274: Macduff, this noble passion,
    Child of integrity, hath from my soul
    Wiped the black scruples, reconciled my thoughts
    To thy good truth and honor.

275: I am yet
    Unknown to woman, never was forsworn,
    Scarcely have coveted what was mine own,
    At no time broke my faith, would not betray
    The devil to his fellow, and delight
    No less in truth than life.

276: Whither indeed, before thy here-approach,
    Old Siward, with ten thousand warlike men
    Already at a point, was setting forth.

277: Ay, sir, there are a crew of wretched souls
    That stay his cure.

278: Their malady convinces
    The great assay of art, but at his touch,
    Such sanctity hath heaven given his hand,
    They presently amend.

279: Tis call'd the evil:
    A most miraculous work in this good King,
    Which often, since my here-remain in England,
    I have seen him do.

280: How he solicits heaven,
    Himself best knows; but strangely-visited people,
    All swol'n and ulcerous, pitiful to the eye,
    The mere despair of surgery, he cures,
    Hanging a golden stamp about their necks
    Put on with holy prayers; and 'tis spoken,
    To the succeeding royalty he leaves
    The healing benediction.

281: Alas, poor country,
    Almost afraid to know itself!

282: Where nothing,
    But who knows nothing, is once seen to smile;
    Where sighs and groans and shrieks that rend the air,
    Are made, not mark'd; where violent sorrow seems
    A modern ecstasy.

283: The dead man's knell
    Is there scarce ask'd for who, and good men's lives
    Expire before the flowers in their caps,
    Dying or ere they sicken.

284: O, relation
    Too nice, and yet too true!

285: When I came hither to transport the tidings,
    Which I have heavily borne, there ran a rumor
    Of many worthy fellows that were out,
    Which was to my belief witness'd the rather,
    For that I saw the tyrant's power afoot.

286: Now is the time of help; your eye in Scotland
    Would create soldiers, make our women fight,
    To doff their dire distresses.

287: If it be mine,
    Keep it not from me, quickly let me have it.

288: To relate the manner
    Were, on the quarry of these murther'd deer,
    To add the death of you.

289: Wife, children, servants, all
    That could be found.

290: Naught that I am,
    Not for their own demerits, but for mine,
    Fell slaughter on their souls.

291: But, gentle heavens,
    Cut short all intermission; front to front
    Bring thou this fiend of Scotland and myself;
    Within my sword's length set him; if he 'scape,
    Heaven forgive him too!

292: Come, go we to the King; our power is ready,
    Our lack is nothing but our leave.

293: Since his Majesty went into the field, have seen
her
    rise from her bed, throw her nightgown upon her, unlock her
    closet, take forth paper, fold it, write upon't, read it,
    afterwards seal it, and again return to bed; yet all this
while
    in a most fast sleep.

294: In this
slumbery
    agitation, besides her walking and other actual performances,
    what, at any time, have you heard her say?

295: That, sir, which I will not report after her.

296: This is her very guise, and, upon my
    life, fast asleep.

297: Fie, my lord, fie!

298: No more o' that, my lord, no
more
    o' that.

299: Oh, oh, oh!

300: Well, well, well-
  GENTLEWOMAN.

301: Wash your hands, put on your nightgown, look not
so
    pale.

302: Come,
    come, come, come, give me your hand.

303: To bed, to bed, to bed.

304: God, God, forgive us all!

305: Enter Menteith, Caithness, Angus, Lennox, and Soldiers.

306: The English power is near, led on by Malcolm,
    His uncle Siward, and the good Macduff.

307: For certain, sir, he is not; I have a file
    Of all the gentry.

308: Some say he's mad; others, that lesser hate him,
    Do call it valiant fury; but, for certain,
    He cannot buckle his distemper'd cause
    Within the belt of rule.

309: Now does he feel
    His secret murthers sticking on his hands,
    Now minutely revolts upbraid his faith-breach;
    Those he commands move only in command,
    Nothing in love.

310: Meet we the medicine of the sickly weal,
    And with him pour we, in our country's purge,
    Each drop of us.

311: Enter Macbeth, Doctor, and Attendants.

312: Then fly, false Thanes,
    And mingle with the English epicures!

313: Seyton-I am sick at heart,
    When I behold- Seyton, I say!

314: My way of life
    Is fall'n into the sear, the yellow leaf,
    And that which should accompany old age,
    As honor, love, obedience, troops of friends,
    I must not look to have; but in their stead,
    Curses, not loud but deep, mouth-honor, breath,
    Which the poor heart would fain deny and dare not.

315: All is confirm'd, my lord, which was reported.

316: Send out more horses, skirr the country round,
    Hang those that talk of fear.

317: Not so sick, my lord,
    As she is troubled with thick-coming fancies,
    That keep her from her rest.

318: Canst thou not minister to a mind diseased,
    Pluck from the memory a rooted sorrow,
    Raze out the written troubles of the brain,
    And with some sweet oblivious antidote
    Cleanse the stuff'd bosom of that perilous stuff
    Which weighs upon the heart?

319: Come, sir, dispatch.

320: If thou couldst, doctor, cast
    The water of my land, find her disease
    And purge it to a sound and pristine health,
    I would applaud thee to the very echo,
    That should applaud again.

321: What rhubarb, cyme, or what purgative drug
    Would scour these English hence?

322: Ay, my good lord, your royal preparation
    Makes us hear something.

323: Enter Malcolm, old Seward and his Son, Macduff, Menteith,
Caithness,
Angus, Lennox, Ross, and Soldiers, marching.

324: Let every soldier hew him down a bough,
    And bear't before him; thereby shall we shadow
    The numbers of our host, and make discovery
    Err in report of us.

325: Tis his main hope;
    For where there is advantage to be given,
    Both more and less have given him the revolt,
    And none serve with him but constrained things
    Whose hearts are absent too.

326: Enter Macbeth, Seyton, and Soldiers, with drum and colors.

327: Were they not forced with those that should be ours,
    We might have met them dareful, beard to beard,
    And beat them backward home.

328: I have almost forgot the taste of fears:
    The time has been, my senses would have cool'd
    To hear a night-shriek, and my fell of hair
    Would at a dismal treatise rouse and stir
    As life were in't.

329: I have supp'd full with horrors;
    Direness, familiar to my slaughterous thoughts,
    Cannot once start me.

330: The Queen, my lord, is dead.

331: Tomorrow, and tomorrow, and tomorrow
    Creeps in this petty pace from day to day
    To the last syllable of recorded time;
    And all our yesterdays have lighted fools
    The way to dusty death.

332: Out, out, brief candle!

333: It is a tale
    Told by an idiot, full of sound and fury,
    Signifying nothing.

334: Gracious my lord,
    I should report that which I say I saw,
    But know not how to do it.

335: Well, say, sir.

336: As I did stand my watch upon the hill,
    I look'd toward Birnam, and anon, methought,
    The Wood began to move.

337: If thou speak'st false,
    Upon the next tree shalt thou hang alive,
    Till famine cling thee; if thy speech be sooth,
    I care not if thou dost for me as much.

338: Fear not, till Birnam Wood
    Do come to Dunsinane," and now a wood
    Comes toward Dunsinane.

339: Arm, arm, and out!

340: Enter Malcolm, old Siward, Macduff, and their Army, with boughs.

341: You, worthy uncle,
    Shall with my cousin, your right noble son,
    Lead our first battle.

342: Make all our trumpets speak, give them all breath,
    Those clamorous harbingers of blood and death.

343: But swords I smile at, weapons laugh to scorn,
    Brandish'd by man that's of a woman born.

344: Either thou, Macbeth,
    Or else my sword, with an unbatter'd edge,
    I sheathe again undeeded.

345: The tyrant's people on both sides do fight,
    The noble Thanes do bravely in the war,
    The day almost itself professes yours,
    And little is to do.

346: Enter, sir, the castle.

347: Turn, hell hound, turn!

348: Despair thy charm,
    And let the angel whom thou still hast served
    Tell thee, Macduff was from his mother's womb
    Untimely ripp'd.

349: Then yield thee, coward,
    And live to be the show and gaze o' the time.

350: We'll have thee, as our rarer monsters are,
    Painted upon a pole, and underwrit,
    "Here may you see the tyrant.

351: I will not yield,
    To kiss the ground before young Malcolm's feet,
    And to be baited with the rabble's curse.

352: Though Birnam Wood be come to Dunsinane,
    And thou opposed, being of no woman born,
    Yet I will try the last.

353: Lay on, Macduff,
    And damn'd be him that first cries, "Hold, enough!

354: Enter, with drum and colors, Malcolm, old
Siward, Ross,
the other Thanes, and Soldiers.

355: Some must go off, and yet, by these I see,
    So great a day as this is cheaply bought.

356: Your son, my lord, has paid a soldier's debt.

357: He only lived but till he was a man,
    The which no sooner had his prowess confirm'd
    In the unshrinking station where he fought,
    But like a man he died.

358: Hail, King, for so thou art.

359: I see thee compass'd with thy kingdom's pearl
    That speak my salutation in their minds,
    Whose voices I desire aloud with mine-
    Hail, King of Scotland!

360: My Thanes and kinsmen,
    Henceforth be Earls, the first that ever Scotland
    In such an honor named.

361: What's more to do,
    Which would be planted newly with the time,
    As calling home our exiled friends abroad
    That fled the snares of watchful tyranny,
    Producing forth the cruel ministers
    Of this dead butcher and his fiend-like queen,
    Who, as 'tis thought, by self and violent hands
    Took off her life; this, and what needful else
    That calls upon us, by the grace of Grace
    We will perform in measure, time, and place.

